I'm going to look at the folds
here where the sewing is going to go through again,
and as you see, this fold is in pretty good shape,
as are the rest of the sheets in this section
where they are folded around.
They are in pretty good condition.
The sewing holes are not torn out
or opened up or widened or anything.
They are the way they were
when it was originally sewn.
So the only one that really is damaged,
again, is the outer fold.
That's because it was on the spine.
It had the leather glued right to it,
and the leather had caused some deterioration.
Of course, that's where most of the wear and tear is,
and it just breaks down there.
So it is a combination of having the adhesives there
-the leather glued right to it-
and most of the flexing when the book opens and closes.
We are going to leave that little bit connected right there
and put a thin piece of Japanese paper over this area,
and we want to be careful not to make it so wide
that it covers up any of the printing here.
I mean the writing.
You don't want to use something too lightweight
and too thin, which if it covered some of the writing
it wouldn't matter
because you would probably be able to see through it,
but you want something that's fairly strong
because you are going to be sewing through that.
Again, that's going to be the outer fold,
so it is kind of a compromise.
So what I'm going to do is, first of all,
I'm going to score this with a needle
just so I can tear it in a fairly straight line
but still have a fairly soft edge
instead of having a cut edge,
which would act like a breaking edge, you know,
like a piece of Scotch tape or something.
This is a little more gentle.
Sometimes this type of tissue is torn with water.
You actually take a brush
and you put a bead of water all along
a certain line or a shape,
and the tissue when it's wet it gets very weak.
When it's wet you can tear it
right along where it's been wetted.
And the same thing here.
Just by scoring it and then tear it,
you leave that sort of a softer edge.
Okay. I'm going to paste this up now.
And I have wheat starch paste.
Move it over here . . . on a dry surface there,
take my section, and I'll put this down
covering approximately half the width of the tissue strip,
and I'll use this paper here to fold it over.
That's not sticking . . . let's do it by hand.
This is doing it the hard way.
It's just such a thin strip
[Interviewer]: Especially in a journal like this,
where they might have written across the spine.
[Campbell]: Yeah, that's the thing that I'm most concerned about.
There's writing right up to the edges of the inner margins. . . .
I may want to do this one again.
And the same on this side.
[Interviewer]: That will give you a surface to sew through?
[Campbell]: It's not really overlapping very far,
but when that paste is dry, it will be adequate to,
you know, that tissue will hold on there
and be well attached to this paper,
and then when we're able to open that up and sew through it,
it will be good strong Japanese . . .
long fiber Japanese tissue paper.
Right now I'm going to actually put the rest of the section
inside there so that it kind of molds to the shape,
the full thickness of the section here. . . .